Software Developer (Geotab Keyless Team)

Oakville, Ontario - Canada
Who we are
Geotab ® is a global leader in IoT and connected transportation and certified “Great Place to Work™.” We are a company of diverse and talented individuals who work together to help businesses grow and succeed, and increase the safety and sustainability of our communities.
 
Geotab is advancing security, connecting commercial vehicles to the internet and providing web-based analytics to help customers better manage their fleets. Geotab’s open platform and Geotab Marketplace ®, offering hundreds of third-party solution options, allows both small and large businesses to automate operations by integrating vehicle data with their other data assets. Processing billions of data points a day, Geotab leverages data analytics and machine learning to improve productivity, optimize fleets through the reduction of fuel consumption, enhance driver safety and achieve strong compliance to regulatory changes.
 
Our team is growing and we’re looking for people who follow their passion, think differently and want to make an impact. Ours is a fast paced, ever changing environment. Geotabbers accept that challenge and are willing to take on new tasks and activities - ones that may not always be described in the initial job description. Join us for a fulfilling career with opportunities to innovate, great benefits, and our fun and inclusive work culture. Reach your full potential with Geotab. To see what it’s like to be a Geotabber, check out our blog and follow us @InsideGeotab on Instagram. Join our talent network to learn more about job opportunities and company news.
Who you are:

Geotab is seeking a Software Developer who will develop high level code with attention to system integration and scalability. You are able to create representations for functions and user interfaces. You will ensure that the software meets all requirements of design, quality, security, extensibility etc. You have the ability to take the solution all the way to the finish line.
What you'll do:

The Geotab Keyless team is seeking an experienced software developer to contribute to the continuing improvement of its products. The Geotab Keyless team is a highly collaborative, cross-functional team of back-end, front-end, mobile, and embedded developers who work to support the central Geotab Keyless vehicle access system, mobile device SDKs for integrations, and front-end utilities for client access, and hardware enabling users to access vehicles through cellular, Bluetooth, and NFC technologies. In this role your primary responsibility would involve supporting the back-end management platform with an external API in C# ASP.NET. Critical tasks include maintaining scalability of components utilizing PostgreSQL databases and Kubernetes cloud deployments, ensuring high-quality test coverage, and making code changes to the platform with a mindset aware of the risks when modifying mission critical components. You will also be responsible for understanding how all the various Keyless platform technologies interact and provide subject matter expertise on your components to other team members and external stakeholders to solve problems and ensure ongoing success.
How you'll make an impact

    Define, design, and implement new software applications in collaboration with other members of the development and technical teams.
    Translate application storyboards and use cases into functional applications.
    Perform Test-Driven and Security-Driven Development.
    Conduct comprehensive code reviews and ensure that coding standards are followed.
    Analyze call stacks, trace files, debug logs or performance data to troubleshoot and identify the root cause of bugs.
    Participate in development of prototypes, minimum viable products and PoCs.
    Help maintain code quality, organization and automation.
    Perform maintenance programming for existing applications.
    Ensure the functionality, performance, scalability, reliability, realistic implementation schedules and system architecture for each assignment.
    Provide design documents and documentation to ensure efficient maintenance and code reuse.
    Provide recommendations for improvements in the overall development process.
    Participate in a 24x7 on-call rotating schedule.

What you'll bring to the role

    Experience with using Linux, C# and ASP .NET and experience with object-oriented design, unit testing, optimization and multithreaded programming.
    SQL Server and Postgres. Database design, optimization and writing queries.
    Experience in Python, TypeScript, Kotlin, or Swift (preferred).
    Working knowledge of Cloud computing experience with GCP, AWS and/or Azure. Docker, Helm, and Kubernetes experience (preferred).
    Excellent written and oral communication skills.
    Able to work well under pressure and respond to fast changing priorities and deadlines.
    Highly organized and able to manage multiple tasks and projects simultaneously.
    Strong analytical skills with the ability to problem-solve to well-judged decisions.
    A strong team-player with the ability to engage with all levels of the organization.
    Technical competence using software programs, including, but not limited to, Google Suite for business (Sheets, Docs, Slides).
    Entrepreneurial mindset and comfortable in a flat organization.
    Diploma/Degree specialization in Computer Science, Electrical, Software Engineering, or a related field.

QUESTIONS
What frameworks/libraries are you most proficient in?*
I am most proficient in React, which I’ve used extensively in both personal projects and professional settings. For example, I built my personal portfolio using React, Vite, and TailwindCSS to create a modern, responsive design. Additionally, during my time at the Centre for Applied AI & GEOTAB, I engineered a front-end city maintenance web app using Svelte JS, integrating it with a RESTful backend. I also have experience with Kubernetes, Docker, and Azure DevOps, which I used to transition CI/CD pipelines at FreshBooks, enhancing performance for microservices.

Do you have experience working with cloud computing? (GCP/Azure/AWS)*
Yes, I have experience working with cloud platforms, particularly Azure and AWS. During my internship at FreshBooks, I transitioned CI/CD pipelines to Microsoft Azure DevOps, utilizing tools like Kubernetes, Docker, and Helm charts, which boosted developer productivity and reduced errors. I also worked with AWS services during my undergraduate studies, gaining hands-on experience with cloud infrastructure. Additionally, I have exposure to GCP from coursework where I used Google BigQuery for executing geospatial queries and analyzing data efficiently.

Do you have any Systems Design/ Architecture experience?*
While I don't have direct professional experience in systems design or architecture, I gained a strong theoretical foundation from system design courses during my undergraduate studies which helped me understand how to design scalable and maintainable systems. 

I also applied this knowledge in my capstone project, where I led the design and development of a fitness application for multiple users from scratch. The project was a success, winning first place for its functionality and innovative features, including 3D manipulation and cloud databases. This experience deepened my understanding of how to build effective systems, and I am excited to continue applying these concepts in a professional setting.